## What is Booting?

The process of copying the kernel from the hard disk to memory and then executing it is called booting.

### Power Supply

- When you press the power button, the power
  supply goes to the motherboard.

- The motherboard is the main circuit board of the computer. It acts as the central hub through which all the different components of the computer communicate.

- The motherboard then sends a signal to the power supply unit (PSU or SMPS, which stands for Switched Mode Power Supply). This signal is a command to the power supply to ensure that it is providing stable and proper electrical power to the rest of the computer components.

- The power supply unit responds to the signal by ensuring that it is indeed providing a stable and adequate power supply. It may check the voltage, current, and other parameters to make sure everything is within acceptable limits.

- Once the power supply confirms that it's providing good power, the motherboard initiates the next step, which is to start the central processing unit (CPU).

### CPU

When the x86 architecture–based CPU starts, it clears the old data from all the registers
and starts with this:

```asm
    IP              0xfff0
    CS selector     0xf000
    CS base         0xffff0000
```

This indicates that the computer is set to start executing instructions from the BIOS code. The CS Selector specifies the code segment, the CS Base sets the starting point within that segment, and the IP specifies the offset or "page" within the segment from which to begin execution. In this case, the values are configured to start running the BIOS code from the memory address `0xffff0000 + 0xfff0`, which is where the BIOS code's initial instructions are typically located.

This is the memory location at which the
CPU expects to find the first instruction to execute.

At this location, it contains a jump
instruction that points to a BIOS entry point.

- ### CS Selector (Code Segment Selector):

  is used to select the appropriate "map" or code segment from a set of available segments. This is like picking the right map for your journey.

- ### CS Base (Code Segment Base):

  sets the starting point for the entire code segment, which is the reference point. It's like the location where you need to begin your journey.

- ### IP (Instruction Pointer):

  indicates how far you need to go from the starting point specified by CS Base. It serves as the "clue" or page number that tells you where to start reading or executing instructions within the code segment.

It’s the job of the firmware to launch the bootloader of an operating system.
